---
layout: page
permalink: /teaching/cs395t/fa23
title: CS395T Advanced Topics in Computer Networks - Fall23
description:  
nav: false
---

##### Fall 2023 
### CS395T: Advanced Topics in Computer Networks

**Unique number:** 53215<br/>
**Time:** MW 10:30 AM - 12:00PM (Starting August 21) <br/>
**Location:** GDC 2.210 <br/>
**Instructor:** Daehyeok Kim (daehyeok@cs.utexas.edu)<br/>
**Office hours:** Wednesdays 4-5PM at GDC 6.824 

**We are using <a href="https://utexas.instructure.com/courses/1366439">UT Canvas</a> and <a href="https://edstem.org/us/courses/41871/discussion/">Ed discussion</a> for all communications.**

---

### Course overview

This is a graduate-level reading seminar on computer networking. In this course
we will explore both classic and recent topics in computer networking. The
objectives of this course are:

* To understand the history of computer networking, state-of-the-art network protocols at various layers, network architectures, and networked systems. 
* To critically review research papers in computer networking and networked systems.
* To explore research problems and investigate new ideas through a semester-long research project.

The course is structured around lectures by the instructor and paper
readings/presentations by the students with open discussion. Students will form
a project group (two or three students) and conduct a research project on
computer networks or networked systems.

---
### Topics
* Network architectures
* Inter-domain routing
* Congestion control
* Data centers
* Software-defined networking 
* Programmable data plane 
* Cellular network architecture
* Application-layer networking

---

### Course organization 

**Paper reading response**
<br/>
The reading list is posted on
[Canvas](https://utexas.instructure.com/courses/1366439). You are required to
post reading a response to [Ed
discussion](https://edstem.org/us/courses/41871/discussion/) by 6PM the day
before the class. The response include a short summary of each paper, and your
opinion of the paper.

**In-class paper discussion**
<br/>
You will lead the paper discussion in classes. Presentation slides are optional.
Your goal is to keep the discussion moving along by providing necessary context
and background of the paper.

**Research project**
<br/>
The course project is an open-ended research project, done in groups of two or
three. You are required to submit a proposal and a final report. There will be a
in-class final presentation.

**Grading**
* Paper reading response (20%)
* In-class paper discussion leadership (20%)
* Research project with a final presentation and report (50%)
* In-class participation (10%)

---

### Course policies

**Academic integrity** <br/>
All material you submit in this course (reading responses, project reports, and
presentation materials) must be your own. If you use someone else's material,
you must cite them properly and make it very clear which parts are your own
work. If you are ever in doubt about whether something you intend to submit
violates this policy, please contact me before doing so.

**Excused absences and late submissions** <br/>
If for any reason you need to miss class or the response deadline, please
contact me as soon as possible and at least one week in advance (unless it is an
emergency). We will find a way to make sure that your class participation and
reading response grade won't be affected.

**Services for students with disabilities** <br/>
The university is committed to creating an accessible and inclusive learning
environment consistent with university policy and federal and state law. Please
let me know if you experience any barriers to learning so I can work with you to
ensure you have equal opportunity to participate fully in this course. If you
are a student with a disability, or think you may have a disability, and need
accommodations please contact Disability and Access (D&A). Please refer to D&A’s
website for contact and more information:
[http://diversity.utexas.edu/disability/](http://diversity.utexas.edu/disability/).
If you are already registered with D&A , please deliver your Accommodation
Letter to me as early as possible in the semester so we can discuss your
approved accommodations and needs in this course.

**Sharing of course materials is prohibited** <br/>
No materials used in this class that are produced by the instructor or by
students may be shared online or with anyone outside of the class without
explicit, my written permission. Unauthorized sharing of materials may
facilitate cheating.  The University is aware of the sites used for sharing
materials, and any materials found online that are associated with you, or any
suspected unauthorized sharing of materials, will be reported to Student Conduct
and Academic Integrity in the Office of the Dean of Students. These reports can
result in initiation of the student conduct process and include charge(s) for
academic misconduct, potentially resulting in sanctions, including a grade
impact.